ACTIVITY 3: ZIP CODES

1. For this part of the lab four flags can be entered at the command line: -h, -c, -f, and -s. In
order to take care of the -h flag I used an if statement that said if the first argument was
equal to a -h output the usage message provided. In order to deal with the -c, -f, and -s
flags I used a while loop that executes as long as the number of arguments is greater than
one. Inside this while loop I used shift to loop through the command line arguments and then
three if statements that execute if the arguments equal the flags. If the -c flag is found a
variable called CITY is set to the string after the -c flag and the CITYSET flag is set to
true. If the -f flag is set then another if / elif statement is entered depending on if the -f
flag was followed by the word "text" or "csv". If "text" is entered the TEXT variable is set
to true and if "csv" is entered the CSV variable is set to true. Finally, if the -s flag is
found a variable STATE is set to the string after the -s flag, STATE is then edited if
there is a space in the name, and finally the STATESET variable is set to true.

2. In order to extract the zipcodes I used the command: curl -s
http://www.zipcodestogo.com/"$STATE"/ | grep -Eo '[0-9]{5}/' | cut -c 1-5. This command first
uses curl to get the source code from the webpage containing the information for the desired
state. Next, grep is used to display only the five digit numbers followed by a back slash.
Finally, the cut command is used with the character flag to get rid of the back slash and just
display the five digit zip codes.

3. In order to filter by state and city I used two variables STATE and CITY. I set these
variables in the while loop that dealt with the command line arguments and then called them
later on when finding the zip codes. I used the STATE variable in the curl command to specify
which webpage to gather the source code from. I then used the CITY variable when the city flag
was passed in order to grep the name of the city in the source code and then extract the zip code
from that same line of code.

4. In order to handle the -f flag I used the TEXT and CSV variables and set them to true if
the -f flag was called depending on which option was indicated. I then used if statements that executed
if the TEXT variable or CSV variable were set to true. The if statement that executed when the TEXT option
was indicated simply used grep to display the zip codes one line at a time. The if statement that executed
when the CSV option was indicated used the same grep command to find the zip codes and then uses the tr
command to replace the new line character with a comma.
